README.md, before:

# Group Project: Team Agreement 

### Meeting minutes: 60 
### Members: Derek Douglas, Martha Quintanilla-Ramirez, John Gouldman
### Link: Presentation Deck

### To-do:
- Put this document on GitHub in markdown.
- Schedule a practice-run of your presentation with David during class time.

### Describe the following: 

#### What are the key strengths of each person on the team?
- Derek: CSS: grid-layout, big picture connections and patterns, standardizing and QC’ing code functionality, work to include others and their ideas
- John: resourcefulness, CSS flexbox, JavaScript foundations, planning
- Martha: CSS, HTML, researching, Communication

#### How can you best utilize these strengths in the execution of your project?
- We can plan the execution of our project based on our strengths and limitations. Keeping these in mind, we can manage the amount of stress we encounter as a team and get ahead of issues. John summed it up nicely by using a basketball analogy and stating: we can focus on the process and not the end result. If we know Martha is good at rebounding, she can own that role and help the rest of the team understand what is going on as well.

#### In which professional competencies do you each want to develop greater strength?
- Derek: I would like to further develop process within the Craft Competency. I feel like this project is a great opportunity to focus on just that with my team. I naturally see the end result and know where I want to/need to go. If I’m at A, I can see J and M and S along the way to Z, but figuring out how to get there in-between is where my brain sometimes struggles. I’m going to focus on completing small, measured steps with my team as development.
- Martha: I want to develop greater strength in confidence and speaking, I want to confidently read code out loud and be able to understand the code I’m reading or writing. Work on innovation as well to be able to bring ideas to the table and confidently discuss them with the team.
 
- John:
    - Technical - Will need to learn how to form ideas into solid engineering principles.
    - Listening - Will need to devote more time to active listening in order to know what is being shared and be more engaged.
    - Tool Proficiency - Will need to learn more tools of the trade.
#### Knowing that every person in your team needs to understand all aspects of the project, how do you plan to approach the day-to-day work?
- Peer-review. Talking about the code and taking notes on it will allow us to satisfy this requirement.
- On more complicated code: prefer pair-programming when possible. Not only will this ensure that everyone understands, but also help us solve more difficult problems more easily.
# Conflict Plan
#### What will be your group’s process to resolve conflict, when it arises?
- Majority opinion rules. We don’t need to agree at the end of the day, but will respect the decision the group makes. If the solution chosen doesn’t work, we will revisit the other idea.

#### What will your team do if one person is taking over the project and not letting the other members contribute?
- Planning out responsibilities in the beginning and breaking the project into chunks for everyone
- Let each other know and discuss if we feel this is happening.
#### How will you approach each other and the challenges of the project knowing that it is impossible for all members to be at the exact same place in understanding and skill level?
- Understand that it’s okay and inevitable. When team members find themselves ahead, we can reach back and help the team with their understanding instead of forging ahead.
#### How will you raise concerns to members who are not adequately contributing?
- No sugarcoating it, leave emotions out of it. Actively share with the group what you are doing, progress we are making, things we’re stuck on now.
- Steady communication and documentation between the team (meeting mins example)
#### How and when will you escalate the conflict if your resolution attempts are unsuccessful?
- Respect the decision of the team

# Communication Plan
#### What hours will you be available to communicate?
- Class hours, can communicate in slack during other hours, expectation is that we may not see it for several hours, and that is okay.
#### What platforms will you use to communicate (ie. Slack, phone …)?
- Slack
#### How often will you take breaks?
- Whenever we feel like it is needed, just communicate it with the team.
#### What is your plan if you start to fall behind?
- Identify which mini projects need to be worked on to meet schedule. If behind, help out team members or reallocate responsibilities.
### How will you communicate after hours and on the weekend?
- Slack, expectation to check in with our chat at least once in the evening on off days
#### What is your strategy for ensuring everyone’s voice is heard?
- If you notice someone isn’t getting their chance to speak, draw them in. Ask others for their opinions as we go, even if we think we know exactly what we want to do.
#### How will you ensure that you are creating a safe environment where everyone feels comfortable speaking up?
- Environment will be respectful and we will never discount someone’s idea as not being worthy of input.


# Work Plan
#### How will you identify tasks, assign tasks, know when they are complete, and manage work in general?
- Use project management tool agreed upon by team. We will tackle this in the planning stage of our project.
#### What project management tool will be used?
- Undecided for now. Will revisit and agree upon as team.


# Git Process

#### What components of your project will live on GitHub?
- All of them

### How will you share the repository with your teammates?
- One of us will own the repo, the rest of us will use branches

#### What is your Git flow?
- Before the end of the day, or at predetermined sections of the project


#### Will you be using a PR review workflow? If so, consider:

- Will revisit later

#### How many people must review a PR?
- All of us


####  Who merges PRs?
- Repo owner


#### How often will you merge?
- Upon group agreement

#### How will you communicate that it’s time to merge?
- Slack, if not during lab time

Commit message:

updated team-agreement to remove John from the read me file and answered the unanswered questions.

README.md, after:

# Group Project: Team Agreement 

### Meeting minutes: 60 
### Members: Derek Douglas, Martha Quintanilla-Ramirez.
### Link: Presentation Deck

### To-do:
- Put this document on GitHub in markdown.
- Schedule a practice-run of your presentation with David during class time.

### Describe the following: 

#### What are the key strengths of each person on the team?
- Derek: CSS: grid-layout, big picture connections and patterns, standardizing and QC’ing code functionality, work to include others and their ideas
- Martha: CSS, HTML, researching, Communication. 

#### How can you best utilize these strengths in the execution of your project?
- We can plan the execution of our project based on our strengths and limitations. Keeping these in mind, we can manage the amount of stress we encounter as a team and get ahead of issues. John summed it up nicely by using a basketball analogy and stating: we can focus on the process and not the end result. If we know Martha is good at rebounding, she can own that role and help the rest of the team understand what is going on as well.

#### In which professional competencies do you each want to develop greater strength?
- Derek: I would like to further develop process within the Craft Competency. I feel like this project is a great opportunity to focus on just that with my team. I naturally see the end result and know where I want to/need to go. If I’m at A, I can see J and M and S along the way to Z, but figuring out how to get there in-between is where my brain sometimes struggles. I’m going to focus on completing small, measured steps with my team as development.

- Martha: I want to develop greater strength in confidence and speaking, I want to confidently read code out loud and be able to understand the code I’m reading or writing. Work on innovation as well to be able to bring ideas to the table and confidently discuss them with the team.
 

#### Knowing that every person in your team needs to understand all aspects of the project, how do you plan to approach the day-to-day work?
- Peer-review. Talking about the code and taking notes on it will allow us to satisfy this requirement.
- On more complicated code: prefer pair-programming when possible. Not only will this ensure that everyone understands, but also help us solve more difficult problems more easily.
# Conflict Plan
#### What will be your group’s process to resolve conflict, when it arises?
- Majority opinion rules. We don’t need to agree at the end of the day, but will respect the decision the group makes. If the solution chosen doesn’t work, we will revisit the other idea.

#### What will your team do if one person is taking over the project and not letting the other members contribute?
- Planning out responsibilities in the beginning and breaking the project into chunks for everyone
- Let each other know and discuss if we feel this is happening.
#### How will you approach each other and the challenges of the project knowing that it is impossible for all members to be at the exact same place in understanding and skill level?

- Understand that it’s okay and inevitable. When team members find themselves ahead, we can reach back and help the team with their understanding instead of forging ahead.

#### How will you raise concerns to members who are not adequately contributing?
- No sugarcoating it, leave emotions out of it. Actively share with the group what you are doing, progress we are making, things we’re stuck on now.
- Steady communication and documentation between the team (meeting mins example)
#### How and when will you escalate the conflict if your resolution attempts are unsuccessful?
- Respect the decision of the team

# Communication Plan
#### What hours will you be available to communicate?
- Class hours, can communicate in slack during other hours, expectation is that we may not see it for several hours, and that is okay.
#### What platforms will you use to communicate (ie. Slack, phone …)?
- Slack
#### How often will you take breaks?
- Whenever we feel like it is needed, just communicate it with the team.
#### What is your plan if you start to fall behind?
- Identify which mini projects need to be worked on to meet schedule. If behind, help out team members or reallocate responsibilities.
### How will you communicate after hours and on the weekend?
- Slack, expectation to check in with our chat at least once in the evening on off days
#### What is your strategy for ensuring everyone’s voice is heard?
- If you notice someone isn’t getting their chance to speak, draw them in. Ask others for their opinions as we go, even if we think we know exactly what we want to do.
#### How will you ensure that you are creating a safe environment where everyone feels comfortable speaking up?
- Environment will be respectful and we will never discount someone’s idea as not being worthy of input.


# Work Plan
#### How will you identify tasks, assign tasks, know when they are complete, and manage work in general?

- Use project management tool agreed upon by team. We will tackle this in the planning stage of our project.

#### What project management tool will be used?

- We will use a markdown file in our repo, its easier to track everything.


# Git Process

#### What components of your project will live on GitHub?

- All of them

### How will you share the repository with your teammates?

- Derek has the repo on his github and has added me as collaborator.

#### What is your Git flow?

- Before the end of the day, or at predetermined sections of the project


#### Will you be using a PR review workflow? If so, consider:

- Yes, both Derek and I will need to review the pull request prior to merging.

#### How many people must review a PR?

- Both of us.


####  Who merges PRs?

- who ever is not the author of the PR.(the author of the code should explain the changes made to the other person.)


#### How often will you merge?

- Upon group agreement

#### How will you communicate that it’s time to merge?

- Slack, if not during lab time
